I2C.SPI/lsm303.calibration/README.md, before:

## LSM303 calibration

### Log data for calibration
Run the script `lsm303.sh` with
```
...
JAVA_OPTS="$JAVA_OPTS -Dlsm303.log.for.calibration=true"
sudo java $JAVA_OPTS -cp $CP i2c.sensor.LSM303 > lsm303.csv
```
Move the device in every possible directions and positions..., then stop (`Ctrl+C`) the program.
Save the logged (csv) file.

### What we want
We want the data points to be disposed on circles, centered on `[0,0]`.

For that, we will determine offsets and coefficients, for each plan (XY, XZ, and YZ), and for both devices (magnetometer, accelerometer).

### Get to the calibration parameters
Use the `lsm303.csv` file, open it as a spreadsheet (I use LibreOffice).

Select columns `magX` and `magY`, and insert chart.

![MagX-MagY](./magX-magY.png)

The calibration parameters should re-center the circle on `[0, 0]` and make the figure round instead of oval.
> _Note_: For clarity, make sure the x & y scales are similar... In the figure above, the X steps and scale are quite different from the Y ones. 

- Create new cells, `X offset`, `X coeff`, `Y offset`, `Y coeff`
- Then, as shown below, create new columns taking those parameters in account, `new MagX` as `=$Q$3*(J2 + $Q$2)`, and `new MagY` as `=$Q$5*(K2 + $Q$4)`, drag each column down to the bottom of the table.
- Then adjust the offsets and coeffs until you reach the expected result

![Adjusted](./Adjusted.png)

See on the figure above, the circle has a (almost) constant radius of ~40, centered on `[0, 0]`.
The parameters to remember are on the top left.

Do the same for X & Z, Y & Z, and repeat for the ACC data.

And finally, you can put those data into a properties file, so it can be used at runtime:
```properties
MagXOffset=12
MagYOffset=-18.0
MagZOffset=-5
#
MagXCoeff=1
MagYCoeff=1.05
MagZCoeff=1
#
AccXOffset=0.05
AccYOffset=0
AccZOffset=0
#
AccXCoeff=1
AccYCoeff=1.05
AccZCoeff=1.05
```

The default properties file name is `lsm303.cal.properties`. 

See the code of `LSM303.java` for details... ;)

Commit message:

Doc on calibration, moving on

I2C.SPI/lsm303.calibration/README.md, after:

## LSM303 calibration

Magnetometers often - if not always - require calibration.
Here is an easy way to get to the expected calibration parameters.

### Log data for calibration
Run the script `lsm303.sh` with
```
...
JAVA_OPTS="$JAVA_OPTS -Dlsm303.log.for.calibration=true"
sudo java $JAVA_OPTS -cp $CP i2c.sensor.LSM303 > lsm303.csv
```
Move the device in every possible directions and positions..., then stop (`Ctrl+C`) the program.
Save the logged (csv) file.

### What we want
We want the data points to be disposed on circles, centered on `[0,0]`.

For that, we will determine offsets and coefficients, for each plan (XY, XZ, and YZ), and for both devices (magnetometer, accelerometer).

### Get to the calibration parameters
Use the `lsm303.csv` file, open it as a spreadsheet (I use LibreOffice).

Select columns `magX` and `magY`, and insert chart.

![MagX-MagY](./magX-magY.png)

The calibration parameters should re-center the circle on `[0, 0]` and make the figure round instead of oval.
> _Note_: For clarity, make sure the x & y scales are similar... In the figure above, the X steps and scale are quite different from the Y ones. 

It is not necessary to sve this chart, you can get rid of it. We will create a new one, with parameters to re-shape it.

- Create new cells:
  - `X offset`
  - `X coeff`
  - `Y offset`
  - `Y coeff`
- Then, as shown below, create new columns taking those parameters in account:
  - `new MagX`, with the following formula in `R2`: `=$Q$3*(J2 + $Q$2)`
  - `new MagY`, with the following formula in `S2`: `=$Q$5*(K2 + $Q$4)`
- Drag each new column down to the bottom of the table.
- Then with the new columns `new MagX` and `new MagY`, create the same graph as previously (resize the chart so you have square cells...):
![Adjusting](./Adjusting.1.png)

- Then adjust the offsets and coefficients until you reach the expected result:
![Adjusting](./Adjusting.2.png)

See on the figure above, the circle has a (almost) constant radius of ~40, centered on `[0, 0]`.
The parameters to remember are on the top left.

Do the same for X & Z, Y & Z, and repeat for the ACC data.

And finally, you save put those data into a properties file, so it can be used at runtime:
```properties
MagXOffset=12
MagYOffset=-15.0
MagZOffset=-5
#
MagXCoeff=1
MagYCoeff=1.05
MagZCoeff=1
#
AccXOffset=0.05
AccYOffset=0
AccZOffset=0
#
AccXCoeff=1
AccYCoeff=1.05
AccZCoeff=1.05
```

The default properties file name is `lsm303.cal.properties`. 

See the code of `LSM303.java` for details about the way to apply those parameters... ;)

---
