NMEA.mux.WebUI/small.server.extended/README.md, before:

# WIP, Full NavServer running on a Raspberry Pi Zero W
**Features**:
- 2 [Adafruit Bonnets](https://www.adafruit.com/product/3203), $4.50 each
    - One with a [132x64 oled screen](https://www.adafruit.com/product/938), $19.95, 2 push buttons, 1 switch for the power supply
    - One with the [Adafruit Ultimate GPS](https://www.adafruit.com/product/746), $39.95, and a [BME280](https://www.adafruit.com/product/2652) (Humidity, Temperature, Atmospheric Pressure), $19.95
- LiPo battery
- Buttons can be used to scroll through the different displays
    - also features a "local" menu (to be browsed with the buttons) that can execute different tasks, easy to customize like
        - Pausing the logging
        - Resuming the logging
        - Shutting down the Multiplexer
        - Shutting down the machine (see below)
        - etc...
    - Activate a screen saver mode
- A specific combination on the buttons can shut down the machine.

> Prices, August 2019.

---

This example shows how to _**extend**_  the `NavServer`.

It shows how to add features like **TWO** push-buttons, and take ownership of a screen (Nokia, SSD1306...)

It comes with a class named `navserver.ServerWithKewlButtons`, that extends the `navrest.NavServer`.
As a result, it's driven by the exact same `properties` file.

To see how to interact with the buttons (to start and stop the logging for example, or
to shutdown the whole server), look for the variables named `pbmOne` and `pbmShift`.

Implements `simple-click`, `double-click`, and `long-click`.

```java
final static PushButtonMaster pbmOne = new PushButtonMaster();
final static PushButtonMaster pbmTwo = new PushButtonMaster();
```

> Note: the code to add here is just there for the buttons management. There is _absolutely no code_
> to add for the `BME280`, the GPS, or the `SSD1306` screen. It is all taken care of by the properties files.

> See `nmea.mux.gps.log.properties` to know how to reference those devices, and 
> `ssd1306.properties` to see how to choose the data to display on the oled screen. 

This is built just like the other examples in this module, just run
```
 $ ./builder.sh
 ```
 and follow the instructions in the console.

---

### A first prototype
| Pressure (BME280) | Position (GPS) | Side view |
|:--:|:--:|:--:|
| ![PRMSL](./docimg/06.jpg) | ![POS](./docimg/07.jpg) | ![All the layers](./docimg/08.jpg) |
| ![PRMSL](./docimg/09.jpg) | ![POS](./docimg/10.jpg) | On top, it is powered by a USB Cable, it can also be powered by a LiPo battery at the bottom (left, 2200mAH) |

### Screenshots

| NMEA Data | Local Menu | Local Menu, 2 |
|:---------:|:---------:|:---------:|
| ![NMEA](./docimg/01.png) | ![NMEA](./docimg/02.png) | ![NMEA](./docimg/03.png) |
| Screen Saver (one dot blinking) | Complete Shutdown |
| ![NMEA](./docimg/04.png) | ![NMEA](./docimg/05.png) |

### Wiring
![Bare wiring](../Adafruit.Ultimate.GPS.RPiZero_bb.png)

![On Bonnet](../Adafruit.Ultimate.GPS.RPiZero.Bonnet.1_bb.png)

![Bonnet wiring](../Adafruit.Ultimate.GPS.RPiZero.Bonnet.2_bb.png)

### Extras
- Cue-card for the UI (depends on your implementation):
```
Button-2 + LongClick on Button-1: Shutdown (confirm with double-click within 3 seconds) 
DoubleClick on Button-1: Show local menu                                                
DoubleClick on Button-2: Screen Saver mode. Any simple-click to resume.
```

> To grant serial port access to user `pi`:
> ```
> $ sudo usermod -a -G tty pi
> ```
> In case you use a USB GPS, if it shows up on port `/dev/ttyACM0` and you have trouble reading it,
> do a 
> ```
> $ sudo ln -s /dev/ttyACM0 /dev/ttyS80
> ```
> then read the port `/dev/ttyS80`.

### Configurations
#### [Raspberry Pi Zero W](https://www.raspberrypi.org/products/raspberry-pi-zero-w/)
RAM: 512 Mb
- **_Good for logging_**
- A bit challenging when acting as a server (Web and REST), too small.
- With a 2200mAH LiPo battery, alive between 1:00:31pm and 8:05:57pm (lifespan: 7:05:26)
- With a TCP forwarder, it's OK to reach it from another device, running OpenCPN for example.
- Not enough memory for the xsl/fop/pdf publications

#### [Raspberry Pi 3 A+](https://www.raspberrypi.org/products/raspberry-pi-3-model-a-plus/)
RAM: 512 Mb

- More powerful that the `Raspberry Pi Zero`, obviously, but still a bit challenged 
when displaying the web pages involving intensive REST requests.
- With a TCP forwarder, it's OK to reach it from another device, running OpenCPN for example.
- Not enough memory for the xsl/fop/pdf publications

> Use a [Perma-Proto Pi HAT](https://www.adafruit.com/product/2310)
![Bigger](../perma-proto-pi-hat_bb_01.png)
![Bigger](../perma-proto-pi-hat_bb_02.png)

#### [Raspberry Pi 3 B](https://www.raspberrypi.org/products/raspberry-pi-3-model-b-plus/)
#### [Raspberry Pi 3 B+](https://www.raspberrypi.org/products/raspberry-pi-3-model-b-plus/)
RAM: 1Gb

- Still a bit challenged when displaying the web pages involving intensive REST requests.
- OK for almanac publication.
- With a TCP forwarder, it's OK to reach it from another device, running OpenCPN for example.

> Use a [Perma-Proto Pi HAT](https://www.adafruit.com/product/2310), same as above

##### Raspberry Pi 4 B, with 4Gb of RAM
Easy: Perfect! 
All features available without having to wait.
- REST Server
- HTTP Server
- Publication of almanacs (Celestial and Tide)
- Sight reduction
- Logging
- Admin
- everything!

Emits its own network. Reachable from other devices (laptops, tablets, smart-phones, smart-watches)
through all available channels (ssh, vnc, tcp, http, etc).
No attached screen required, as ssh and VNC can do the job remotely.

Even OpenCPN seems to be running fine on this machine.

> _Note_: HDMI ports are `Micro-HDMI`, power supply requires a `USB-C`, and not a `Micro-B` as the other models.
> ![USBs](./docimg/usb_types.jpg) ![AllUSB](./docimg/all_usb.jpg)

_Remember_: the U in USB stands for Universal...

> TODO: Evaluate power consumption, and the way it heats up.

### About Some GPS devices I tested
#### Adafruit Ultimate GPS, 66 channels
- $39.95 for the [breakout board](https://www.adafruit.com/product/746) 
- $14.95 for the [antenna](https://www.adafruit.com/product/960)
- $3.95 for the [connector](https://www.adafruit.com/product/851)

Not 100% reliable, "sometimes" stops reading, I don't know why...

#### GT-3731-44 (USB, 44 channels)
It is an old one, I got mine around 2004. Works fine, but the date (RMC) recently got off by 7168 days! Probably some kind of overflow... `7168 = 0x1C00`

#### [U-blox7, small USB dongle](https://www.amazon.com/Diymall-G-Mouse-Glonass-Raspberry-Aviation/dp/B00NWEEWW8/ref=sr_1_3?keywords=Stratux+Vk-162+Remote+Mount+USB+GPS&qid=1569081064&s=wireless&sr=1-3-catcorr), 56 channels.
$13.49. Ok on a laptop, could not get it to read correctly on a Raspberry Pi.

#### [Stratux Vk-162 Remote Mount USB GPS](https://www.amazon.com/Navigation-External-Receiver-Raspberry-Geekstory/dp/B078Y52FGQ/ref=sr_1_1?keywords=Stratux+Vk-162+Remote+Mount+USB+GPS&qid=1569081064&s=wireless&sr=1-1-catcorr), 50 channels.
$17.98. Works OK everywhere I tested it! 👍

# TODO
- Describe the way to get to the log files, download, etc.
- Document Web UI: `runner.html`, `logMgmt.html`, etc. (maybe)
- Simulator for the buttons. &#9989; Done! And working great.
- 3D printed enclosure, to contain the Raspberry Pi, the 2 bonnets, and a LiPo battery.
- Go to screen saver mode after a given amount of time of inactivity. &#9989; Done.
- Compare several Raspberry Pi versions (Zero, A, B). &#9989; Done.

Commit message:

Added pictures of the second proto

NMEA.mux.WebUI/small.server.extended/README.md, after:

# WIP, Full NavServer running on a Raspberry Pi Zero W
**Features**:
- 2 [Adafruit Bonnets](https://www.adafruit.com/product/3203), $4.50 each
    - One with a [132x64 oled screen](https://www.adafruit.com/product/938), $19.95, 2 push buttons, 1 switch for the power supply
    - One with the [Adafruit Ultimate GPS](https://www.adafruit.com/product/746), $39.95, and a [BME280](https://www.adafruit.com/product/2652) (Humidity, Temperature, Atmospheric Pressure), $19.95
- LiPo battery
- Buttons can be used to scroll through the different displays
    - also features a "local" menu (to be browsed with the buttons) that can execute different tasks, easy to customize like
        - Pausing the logging
        - Resuming the logging
        - Shutting down the Multiplexer
        - Shutting down the machine (see below)
        - etc...
    - Activate a screen saver mode
- A specific combination on the buttons can shut down the machine.

> Prices, August 2019.

---

This example shows how to _**extend**_  the `NavServer`.

It shows how to add features like **TWO** push-buttons, and take ownership of a screen (Nokia, SSD1306...)

It comes with a class named `navserver.ServerWithKewlButtons`, that extends the `navrest.NavServer`.
As a result, it's driven by the exact same `properties` file.

To see how to interact with the buttons (to start and stop the logging for example, or
to shutdown the whole server), look for the variables named `pbmOne` and `pbmShift`.

Implements `simple-click`, `double-click`, and `long-click`.

```java
final static PushButtonMaster pbmOne = new PushButtonMaster();
final static PushButtonMaster pbmTwo = new PushButtonMaster();
```

> Note: the code to add here is just there for the buttons management. There is _absolutely no code_
> to add for the `BME280`, the GPS, or the `SSD1306` screen. It is all taken care of by the properties files.

> See `nmea.mux.gps.log.properties` to know how to reference those devices, and 
> `ssd1306.properties` to see how to choose the data to display on the oled screen. 

This is built just like the other examples in this module, just run
```
 $ ./builder.sh
 ```
 and follow the instructions in the console.

---

### A first prototype
| Pressure (BME280) | Position (GPS) | Side view |
|:--:|:--:|:--:|
| ![PRMSL](./docimg/06.jpg) | ![POS](./docimg/07.jpg) | ![All the layers](./docimg/08.jpg) |
| ![PRMSL](./docimg/09.jpg) | ![POS](./docimg/10.jpg) | On top, it is powered by a USB Cable, it can also be powered by a LiPo battery at the bottom (left, 2200mAH) |

### Screenshots

| NMEA Data | Local Menu | Local Menu, 2 |
|:---------:|:---------:|:---------:|
| ![NMEA](./docimg/01.png) | ![NMEA](./docimg/02.png) | ![NMEA](./docimg/03.png) |
| Screen Saver (one dot blinking) | Complete Shutdown |
| ![NMEA](./docimg/04.png) | ![NMEA](./docimg/05.png) |

### Wiring
![Bare wiring](../Adafruit.Ultimate.GPS.RPiZero_bb.png)

![On Bonnet](../Adafruit.Ultimate.GPS.RPiZero.Bonnet.1_bb.png)

![Bonnet wiring](../Adafruit.Ultimate.GPS.RPiZero.Bonnet.2_bb.png)

### Extras
- Cue-card for the UI (depends on your implementation):
```
Button-2 + LongClick on Button-1: Shutdown (confirm with double-click within 3 seconds) 
DoubleClick on Button-1: Show local menu                                                
DoubleClick on Button-2: Screen Saver mode. Any simple-click to resume.
```

> To grant serial port access to user `pi`:
> ```
> $ sudo usermod -a -G tty pi
> ```
> In case you use a USB GPS, if it shows up on port `/dev/ttyACM0` and you have trouble reading it,
> do a 
> ```
> $ sudo ln -s /dev/ttyACM0 /dev/ttyS80
> ```
> then read the port `/dev/ttyS80`.

### Configurations
#### [Raspberry Pi Zero W](https://www.raspberrypi.org/products/raspberry-pi-zero-w/)
RAM: 512 Mb
- **_Good for logging_**
- A bit challenging when acting as a server (Web and REST), too small.
- With a 2200mAH LiPo battery, alive between 1:00:31pm and 8:05:57pm (lifespan: 7:05:26)
- With a TCP forwarder, it's OK to reach it from another device, running OpenCPN for example.
- Not enough memory for the xsl/fop/pdf publications

#### [Raspberry Pi 3 A+](https://www.raspberrypi.org/products/raspberry-pi-3-model-a-plus/)
RAM: 512 Mb

- More powerful that the `Raspberry Pi Zero`, obviously, but still a bit challenged 
when displaying the web pages involving intensive REST requests.
- With a TCP forwarder, it's OK to reach it from another device, running OpenCPN for example.
- Not enough memory for the xsl/fop/pdf publications

> Use a [Perma-Proto Pi HAT](https://www.adafruit.com/product/2310)
![Bigger](../perma-proto-pi-hat_bb_01.png)
![Bigger](../perma-proto-pi-hat_bb_02.png)

#### [Raspberry Pi 3 B](https://www.raspberrypi.org/products/raspberry-pi-3-model-b-plus/)
#### [Raspberry Pi 3 B+](https://www.raspberrypi.org/products/raspberry-pi-3-model-b-plus/)
RAM: 1Gb

- Still a bit challenged when displaying the web pages involving intensive REST requests.
- OK for almanac publication.
- With a TCP forwarder, it's OK to reach it from another device, running OpenCPN for example.

> Use a [Perma-Proto Pi HAT](https://www.adafruit.com/product/2310), same as above

#### Second Proto
Suitable for Raspberry Pi A and B. The GPS is external, using a USB port.

| In place | At work |
|:--------:|:-------:|
| ![Perma-Hat 01](./docimg/perma-hat/perma-hat.01.jpg) | ![Perma-Hat 02](./docimg/perma-hat/perma-hat.02.jpg) |

##### Raspberry Pi 4 B, with 4Gb of RAM
Easy: Perfect! 
All features available without having to wait.
- REST Server
- HTTP Server
- Publication of almanacs (Celestial and Tide)
- Sight reduction
- Logging
- Admin
- everything!

Emits its own network. Reachable from other devices (laptops, tablets, smart-phones, smart-watches)
through all available channels (ssh, vnc, tcp, http, etc).
No attached screen required, as ssh and VNC can do the job remotely.

Even OpenCPN seems to be running fine on this machine.

> _Note_: HDMI ports are `Micro-HDMI`, power supply requires a `USB-C`, and not a `Micro-B` as the other models.
> ![USBs](./docimg/usb_types.jpg) ![AllUSB](./docimg/all_usb.jpg)

_Remember_: the U in USB stands for Universal...

> TODO: Evaluate power consumption, and the way it heats up.

### About Some GPS devices I tested
#### Adafruit Ultimate GPS, 66 channels
- $39.95 for the [breakout board](https://www.adafruit.com/product/746) 
- $14.95 for the [antenna](https://www.adafruit.com/product/960)
- $3.95 for the [connector](https://www.adafruit.com/product/851)

Not 100% reliable, "sometimes" stops reading, I don't know why...

#### GT-3731-44 (USB, 44 channels)
It is an old one, I got mine around 2004. Works fine, but the date (RMC) recently got off by 7168 days! Probably some kind of overflow... `7168 = 0x1C00`

#### [U-blox7, small USB dongle](https://www.amazon.com/Diymall-G-Mouse-Glonass-Raspberry-Aviation/dp/B00NWEEWW8/ref=sr_1_3?keywords=Stratux+Vk-162+Remote+Mount+USB+GPS&qid=1569081064&s=wireless&sr=1-3-catcorr), 56 channels.
$13.49. Ok on a laptop, could not get it to read correctly on a Raspberry Pi.

#### [Stratux Vk-162 Remote Mount USB GPS](https://www.amazon.com/Navigation-External-Receiver-Raspberry-Geekstory/dp/B078Y52FGQ/ref=sr_1_1?keywords=Stratux+Vk-162+Remote+Mount+USB+GPS&qid=1569081064&s=wireless&sr=1-1-catcorr), 50 channels.
$17.98. Works OK everywhere I tested it! 👍

# TODO
- Describe the way to get to the log files, download, etc.
- Document Web UI: `runner.html`, `logMgmt.html`, etc. (maybe)
- Simulator for the buttons. &#9989; Done! And working great.
- 3D printed enclosure, to contain the Raspberry Pi, the 2 bonnets, and a LiPo battery.
- Go to screen saver mode after a given amount of time of inactivity. &#9989; Done.
- Compare several Raspberry Pi versions (Zero, A, B). &#9989; Done.
